# What is Mimikatz?

Mimikatz is an open-source application that allows users to view and save authentication credentials such as Kerberos tickets. 
The toolset works with the current release of Windows and includes a collection of different network attacks to help assess vulnerabilities.

Attackers commonly use Mimikatz to steal credentials and escalate privileges because in most cases, endpoint protection software and 
antivirus systems will not detect or delete the attack. Conversely, pen testers use Mimikatz to detect and exploit vulnerabilities in 
your networks so you can fix them.

Mimikatz originally demonstrated how to exploit a single vulnerability in the Windows authentication system. Now it exposes several 
different kinds of vulnerabilities; 
Mimikatz can perform credential-gathering techniques such as:

Pass-the-hash: Windows used to store password data in an NTLM hash. Attackers use Mimikatz to pass that exact hash string to the 
target computer to log in. Attackers don’t even need to crack the password — they just need to use the hash string as-is. It’s 
the equivalent of finding the master key to a building on the lobby floor. You need just that one key to get into all the doors.
Pass-the-ticket: Newer versions of Windows store password data in a construct called a ticket. Mimikatz provides functionality 
for a user to pass a Kerberos ticket to another computer and log in with that user’s ticket. It’s very similar to the pass-the-hash method.
Overpass-the-hash (pass-the-key): Yet another flavor of the pass-the-hash, but this technique passes a unique key obtained from 
a domain controller to impersonate a user. Kerberoast golden tickets: This is a pass-the-ticket attack, but it’s a specific ticket 
for a hidden account called KRBTGT, which is the account that encrypts all of the other tickets. A golden ticket provides you with 
non-expiring domain admin credentials to any computer on the network.
Kerberoast silver tickets: Another pass-the-ticket, but a silver ticket takes advantage of a feature in Windows that makes it easy 
for you to use services on the network. Kerberos grants a user a ticket-granting server (TGS) ticket, and a user can use that ticket 
to authentic to service accounts on the network. Microsoft doesn’t always check a TGS after it’s issued, so it’s easy to slip past any safeguards.
Pass-the-cache: Finally an attack that doesn’t take advantage of Windows! A pass-the-cache attack is generally the same as a pass-the-ticket, 
but this one uses the saved and encrypted login data on a Mac/UNIX/Linux system.
