#IBM Cloud Learn Hub - What is a Virtual Private Cloud?

A VPC is a public cloud offering that lets an enterprise establish its own private cloud-like computing environment on shared public cloud infrastructure. 
A VPC gives an enterprise the ability to define and control a virtual network that is logically
isolated from all other public cloud tenants, creating a private, secure place on the public cloud.

A VPC’s logical isolation is implemented using virtual network functions and security features that give an enterprise customer granular control over which IP addresses or applications can access particular resources. It is analogous to the “friends-only” or “public/private” controls on social media accounts used to restrict who can or can’t see your otherwise public posts.

VPCs are a “best of both worlds” approach to cloud computing. They give customers many of the advantages of private clouds, while leveraging public cloud resources and savings. The following are some key features of the VPC model:

Agility: Control the size of your virtual network and deploy cloud resources whenever your business needs them. You can scale these resources dynamically and in real-time.
Availability: Redundant resources and highly fault-tolerant availability zone architectures mean your applications and workloads are highly available.
Security: Because the VPC is a logically isolated network, your data and applications won’t share space or mix with those of the cloud provider’s other customers. You have full control over how resources and workloads are accessed, and by whom.
Affordability: VPC customers can take advantage of the public cloud’s cost-effectiveness, such as saving on hardware costs, labor times, and other resources.

In a VPC, you can deploy cloud resources into your own isolated virtual network. These cloud resources—also known as logical instances—fall into three categories.

Compute: Virtual server instances (VSIs, also known as virtual servers) are presented to the user as virtual CPUs (vCPUs) with a predetermined amount of computing power, memory, etc.
Storage: VPC customers are typically allocated a certain block storage quota per account, with the ability to purchase more. It is akin to purchasing additional hard drive space. Recommendations for storage are based on the nature of your workload.
Networking: You can deploy virtual versions of various networking functions into your virtual private cloud account to enable or restrict access to its resources. These include public gateways, which are deployed so that all or some areas of your VPC environment can be made available on the public-facing Internet; load balancers, which distribute traffic across multiple VSIs to optimize availability and performance;  and routers, which direct traffic and enable communication between network segments. Direct or dedicated links enable rapid and secure communications between your on-premises enterprise IT environment or your private cloud and your VPC resources on public cloud.